# EDA-CapstoneProject-1-Hotel-Booking-Analysis
In this hotel booking analysis project, we explored the reasons that are governing the overall bookings in the hotels and also suggested the ideas to improve the business of the hotels. Hotel industry is a volatile industry and the bookings in hotels depending on the variety of factors such as type of hotels, customers(Transient Party,Contract,Transient,Group), month, special requests, carparkings, meal type etc. We analyzed the data provided and found the insights that help to increase the average revenue of the hotels.

The hotel booking dataset has total 32 columns and 119390 rows. The data contains the booking related information of two hotels : City Hotel and Resort Hotel. The data regarding their cancellations,revenue etc, is also provided to create the insights for to meet the customer reuirements and increasing the hotel revenue.

From the data, it is clear that more nulls are present in "company" and "agent" columns. It is because many times the bookings may not be done using these two ways. So, intsead of dropping the values, we filled the misssing values with other value like zero. Since, the country column datatype is string the missing values here are replaced with other string data.There are also few nulls in children data so replace the nulls with mean of children's column. After cleaning the data, we added new columns like "total stay" for improving the analysis. From the correaltion we got the inference that revenue depends on the amount of stay of guests. The total stay and leap time also has slight positive correlation. The comparision between both the hotels is also done and we found that City Hotel has highest revenue and is providing more facilities than the resort hotel.
